# Professor Leonidias Guibas - The Functorality of Data -- Understanding Geometric Data Sets Jointly

Professor Guibas presented on his research group's work around the mappings between data sets and how that information can be used to tell us interesting things about the data sets themselves. He started with some simple examples like networks of images and shapes and how looking at the relationships between things in the network can provide distinctions between the objects. He also provided a list of books that form a basis for the information presented in the talk and some of the analogies therein including the projection of a shape on the cave wall (allegory).

Some example problems they have tackled with their technique were: turning extremely comprehensive gps traces in to maps of cities, distinguishing between foreground and background portions of images, and finding interesting portions of 3d scans. He noted briefly in each case how common structure across the data can be used to form a whole picture of the objects in the data such as a picture of the same animal take from different places. He further went on to describe how the relationships between data are always an improvement and described how the segmentation of the human body can achieved by using similar information from other animals because the different parts often share important characteristics. That is, the network of associations within the data itself is "exploitable" for building a better picture of the object.

Finally he declared the relationships themselves as first class data. That is, the relationships allow for a transportation of intuition between models. He gave examples like taking data from horses and the relationship between varying horses and transporting that information to building an idea of camels.

He continued by outlining some of the challenges in this higher-order approach to understanding data with functors mapping functions to other functions on other data. Building the networks and deciding where the boundaries of comparisons begin and end appears to be difficult and assigning a weight to different relationships is also hard.

In general the techniques that his team uses involves starting from a regular mapping between two objects (a cat and a lion) and proceeds to use that mapping as the basis for a relationship from mappings to mappings. He concluded by showing how platos shadow is like the functors they create between mappings in that it provides an abstraction of the objects under consideration.
