# Mayank Mehta, How the Mind Emerges From the Brain

Professor Mehta's talk covered some of the existing understanding of how our brain recognizes its place in the world and his ongoing research into tools and experiments to learn more about it. In particular he detailed the new tools they are using to measure rats neural responses and the new experiments they are using to isolate specific responses.

Early in his presentation he discussed how neurons work and the spike of voltage that signals neural activity. Given that this spike creates a small electric field, extremely tiny sensors can be placed at uniform distances and then distinguish neurons by the strength of the field. This break through in tooling has allowed extremely accurate mapping of neurons and activity in rats and there is continuing research in his lab on ways to improve the density of sensors possible in a small space.

After describing *how* information is retrieved from the brain of a rat, he proceeded to discus the interpretation of that data. Through experiments involving isolation and immersive virtual reality it's become clear that some neurons are sensitive to our place in the world. He also discussed how the level of brain activity is correlated with the level of sensory input and that our sense of place isn't tied only to visual cues but input from all our senses. He followed by covering how that information is assimilated into our long term memory and more generally how *any* information is assimilated into our long term memory in the neocortex.
