# Professor Tommaso Melodia, Sonar Inside Your Body: Towards Implantable Ultrasonic Sensor Networks

Professor Tommaso Melodia presented on intrabody wireless networks focusing on ultrasonic sound as the communication medium. The implications are broad and practical including applications in internal monitoring and actuation from things like heart monitors and pacemakers to automating insulin doses to malicious agent (e.g. cancer) detection.

To start he discussed how one might choose to communicate inside and to short distances outside of the body. Traditional electromagnetic waves don't work well with the soft-tissues of the body and water based mediums like tissue tend to interfere with transmission. Similarly, radio waves cause heat issues in tissue and there are again transmission problems. His research involves using ultrasonic sounds waves as an alternate means of transmission.

Ultrasonic waves have some nice properties and require consideration of some important drawbacks. First the sound must be well above human hearing (~20kH) so that the constant communication of the network nodes aren't continually annoying the user. Unfortunately attenuation is less of an issue at lower frequencies so it's important to find a balance between high enough and too high. Additionally human tissues cause obvious issues with sound waves in the form of reflections and scattering depending on the tissue in question. In general the communication distances must be exceptionally small/short.

Further the professors work involves physical modeling and theoretical modeling of the propagation of sound waves through the body. The physical modeling involves medical grade tissue simulation and the theoretical modeling uses constants to simulate human tissue. A hybrid model may be of value according to questions answer at the end.

In addition the professor described the signaling scheme and how more redundancy necessarily reduced throughput but is important given all the factors that may interfere with sound wave based communication in human tissue. His groups work has been significant enough to contribute to underwater modems and they are working toward contributing to the state of the art there as well.
