# Anatasios Mourikis, High-Precision Localization with Cameras and Inertial Sensors

Professor Mourikis began his talk by introducing some reasons why robot positioning (localization) is difficult. He discussed GPS and how it's the gold standard for localization, but more importantly he covered the scenarios in which GPS won't work. It turns out there is a large diversity of very important robotics applications that make positioning with GPS impossible like underground, indoors, underwater, or even heavily wooded areas.

After setting the stage for the importance of non-GPS localization research, he described the primary tools that researchers are currently using. First and possibly most importantly is the IMU, or Inertial Measurement Unit. IMU's provide velocity, orientation, and gravitational force information. When coupled with a camera the two form a solid foundation for determining position from a starting point with a relatively low accumulation of error.

Accumulated error was an important focus of Professor Mourikis's talk. Even the best IMUs and image algorithms introduce some level of information uncertainty into the calculation of position. Much of his work focuses on using the IMU in concert with image position algorithms to reduce overall error. The results were impressive with ~0.5% accumulated error over the course of a kilometer of distance.

In addition to using expensive IMUs and cameras to get accurate position his work also concerns using commodity hardware to achieve similar results. The challenge here is that the cameras and IMUs in modern phones are significantly less accurate than their more expensive counterparts used in robotics. The advantage is that by supporting commodity hardware the applications of device positioning can be used broadly, democratizing the ecosystem and bringing the power of the open market to bear on possible uses for the technology.
